Intestinal obstruction is blockage
of your small intestine or colon.
Your small intestine is the part of your
digestive tract following your stomach.
After partially digested food
moves from your stomach
into your small intestine,
wave-like contractions move it
through to your large intestine or colon.
Sometimes the intestines become blocked
by strand-like bands of tissue called adhesions.
These are internal scars
that form between 2 surfaces
of the body so they stick together.
Abdominal hysterectomy or other abdominal surgeries
are a frequent cause of adhesions
leading to obstruction of the intestines.
When the scar tissue grows over the intestine,
it can block the movement of digested
food through the digestive tract.
The bowel above the obstruction
dilates, or gets wider.
This causes collection of excess fluid
and impairs the flow of blood through the veins
and arteries in the walls of the intestine.
Without a blood supply, the tissue slowly dies.
Ultimately, the wall of dead intestinal
tissue can tear open,
spilling its contents into the abdominal cavity.